workshops.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Workshops
permalink: /workshops/
---

Below is a list of workshops that have been submitted.

If you would like to run your own workshop, please submit [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1iFy1pa7OQhltZuHkO3znH08HnYIxXtARj7c_TRWtU9g/viewform?usp=send_form).  Applications close on the 15th of June.

## Sex Industry 101

Teaching how to make spaces inclusive and supportive of sex workers, dispelling myths about the sex industry from an intersectional perspective. 

## Bi- and pan-sexuality: Antagonism, invisibility and erasure

Bisexuality has been part of the LGBTIQA+ acronym for years, but is still viewed by many with suspicion. In this workshop we explore how bi/pan antagonism, invisibility and erasure manifest both within mainstream society and the LGBTIQA+ community, including how compulsory monogamy interacts with non-monosexuality. We will critically engage with the term 'bisexual' itself and why many people who experience fluid attraction or are attracted to more than one gender do not identify with the label and/or the LGBTIQA+ community. In light of this we will discuss the barriers to building community around non-monosexuality and brainstorm ways of improving the visibility and inclusion of non-monosexual people.

## Writing I: Re-imagining Gender Identities Through Creative Practice

In this 1.5 hour writing workshop participants will be introduced to ways of thinking gender through a short seminar and discussion, followed by a 45 minute guided writing session. Participants are not expected to share the work they produce, although there will be some opportunity for creators to discuss their writing towards the end of the workshop if they wish.  The workshop aims to encourage writing of all styles including but not limited to: fiction, creative nonfiction, blogging, poetry, song writing and performance writing. Creators of all levels and styles are welcome.  Please bring along a pen and some paper.

## The Story Is Out

Coming out stories workshop.

## Marxist Alternative to Privilege Theory

Marxism offers a relevant and potent critique of identity politics, privilege theory, intersectionality and queer theory.

## "Fuck Yeah Hot Lesbians": The fetishization of queer women's relationships

This is a space for conversation about the objectification and fetishization of relationships between queer women. We recognise that this objectification affects people of other genders who may experience oppression as women as well. In the workshop, we will be exploring fetishization as an aspect of homophobia and biphobia and will be discussing personal experiences as well as media representations.  (This workshop is autonomous (only open) to women and sex and gender diverse identifying people.)

## UNSW Buff Club

UNSW Buff Club is a body-positive workout group. The idea is recycled from Buff Clubs held in Melbourne and Newtown, which were created as safe spaces for those who feel uncomfortable in gyms, because of the machismo, gender stereotyping and body-shaming that can be present, or because they simply couldn't afford to go.   The group's focus is on physical strength and mental health, because exercise is a great tool for dealing with stress. We do not use body shaming tactics as so called motivation, and no-one is obligated to complete any exercises they feel unable to or do not want to. We begin each workout with a conversation about body-positivity or body image and discuss how we can create a positive space for exercising. The workout will run for 30 mins with three 6 min intervals followed by stretching. Please bring comfortable clothes, a bottle of water and a towel if necessary. 

## Postgrad Catchup

A space to meet other postgrads and discuss what you want for the postgrad queer world, including directing the Queer Officer of the Council of Australian Postgraduate Associations.

## Mentors in Violence Prevention

Mentors in Violence Prevention (MVP) is an evidence-based program that is designed on best
practices developed over two decades of dealinglivering gender violence prevention and education
trainings with diverse and varying populations. The MVP model uses a bystander approach to
prevention and intervention that empowers leaders to thinking more critically and personally
about intimate partner and sexual violence.  This approach decreases defensiveness and
helplessness and enables participants to develop concrete options for intervention in the face
of harmful and abusive behaviour.

MVP Australia has developed curriculum for LGBTIQ communities to create an opportunity to
have a conversation about the ways intimate partner and sexual violence impact their lives and
the lives of those they care about.

Commit message:

Added Workshops with descriptions
Poetry, Communication, Dysphoria, science

workshops.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Workshops
permalink: /workshops/
---

Below is a list of workshops that have been submitted.

If you would like to run your own workshop, please submit [here](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1iFy1pa7OQhltZuHkO3znH08HnYIxXtARj7c_TRWtU9g/viewform?usp=send_form).  Applications close on the 15th of June.

## Sex Industry 101

Teaching how to make spaces inclusive and supportive of sex workers, dispelling myths about the sex industry from an intersectional perspective. 

## Bi- and Pan-sexuality: Antagonism, Invisibility and Erasure

Bisexuality has been part of the LGBTIQA+ acronym for years, but is still viewed by many with suspicion. In this workshop we explore how bi/pan antagonism, invisibility and erasure manifest both within mainstream society and the LGBTIQA+ community, including how compulsory monogamy interacts with non-monosexuality. We will critically engage with the term 'bisexual' itself and why many people who experience fluid attraction or are attracted to more than one gender do not identify with the label and/or the LGBTIQA+ community. In light of this we will discuss the barriers to building community around non-monosexuality and brainstorm ways of improving the visibility and inclusion of non-monosexual people.

## Writing I: Re-imagining Gender Identities Through Creative Practice

In this 1.5 hour writing workshop participants will be introduced to ways of thinking gender through a short seminar and discussion, followed by a 45 minute guided writing session. Participants are not expected to share the work they produce, although there will be some opportunity for creators to discuss their writing towards the end of the workshop if they wish.  The workshop aims to encourage writing of all styles including but not limited to: fiction, creative nonfiction, blogging, poetry, song writing and performance writing. Creators of all levels and styles are welcome.  Please bring along a pen and some paper.

## The Story Is Out

Coming out stories workshop.

## Marxist Alternative to Privilege Theory

Marxism offers a relevant and potent critique of identity politics, privilege theory, intersectionality and queer theory.

## "Fuck Yeah Hot Lesbians": The Fetishization of Queer Women's Relationships

This is a space for conversation about the objectification and fetishization of relationships between queer women. We recognise that this objectification affects people of other genders who may experience oppression as women as well. In the workshop, we will be exploring fetishization as an aspect of homophobia and biphobia and will be discussing personal experiences as well as media representations.  (This workshop is autonomous (only open) to women and sex and gender diverse identifying people.)

## UNSW Buff Club

UNSW Buff Club is a body-positive workout group. The idea is recycled from Buff Clubs held in Melbourne and Newtown, which were created as safe spaces for those who feel uncomfortable in gyms, because of the machismo, gender stereotyping and body-shaming that can be present, or because they simply couldn't afford to go.   The group's focus is on physical strength and mental health, because exercise is a great tool for dealing with stress. We do not use body shaming tactics as so called motivation, and no-one is obligated to complete any exercises they feel unable to or do not want to. We begin each workout with a conversation about body-positivity or body image and discuss how we can create a positive space for exercising. The workout will run for 30 mins with three 6 min intervals followed by stretching. Please bring comfortable clothes, a bottle of water and a towel if necessary. 

## Postgrad Catchup

A space to meet other postgrads and discuss what you want for the postgrad queer world, including directing the Queer Officer of the Council of Australian Postgraduate Associations.

## Mentors in Violence Prevention

Mentors in Violence Prevention (MVP) is an evidence-based program that is designed on best
practices developed over two decades of dealinglivering gender violence prevention and education
trainings with diverse and varying populations. The MVP model uses a bystander approach to
prevention and intervention that empowers leaders to thinking more critically and personally
about intimate partner and sexual violence.  This approach decreases defensiveness and
helplessness and enables participants to develop concrete options for intervention in the face
of harmful and abusive behaviour.

MVP Australia has developed curriculum for LGBTIQ communities to create an opportunity to
have a conversation about the ways intimate partner and sexual violence impact their lives and
the lives of those they care about.

## Poetry is Power: Queer Narratives as Means of Accessing Political Discourse

Too often marginalised identities (especially queer identities) are excluded from political discourse. In the last fifteen years, there has been a resurgence of poetry produced as a means of re-entering this discourse by such groups. In this seminar-style workshop, we will look at some methodologies that have been used to create power out of our words and bodies, and discuss other possible methods of creating queer political poetry. This workshop will incorporate traditionally published, slam, and online poetry.

## Communication for Change

This workshop aims to teach people about the different ways of changing people's opinions and behaviours.  There will be a focus on campaigns that students and student organisations can run to improve their university.

## Dysphoria and Medical Transition

Ever wondered what gender dysphoria is?  What the leading theories of the cause for gender dysphoria are?  Have you ever been curious about the various medications, therapies and surgeries that are available for transgender people to alleviate dysphoria?  Then this workshop is for you.

## Science of Sex, Sexuality and Safe Sex

This workshop will be about sex!  But it will also be about science (sorry).  We'll be discussing the science of sexuality and how to make sex as safe as possible.
