---
layout: post
title:  "Response to NOWSA Motion"
date:   2015-07-04 10:15:44
---


Queer Collaborations Organising Committee 2015 takes the welfare and safety of delegates seriously. We’d like to respond to the motion to boycott QC from NOWSA this year. 

In past, the QC Organising Committees and Grievance Collectives have banned multiple people from QC. We respect these prior decisions and no delegates, to our knowledge, who have been previously banned, have registered for QC. We are deeply sorry about any miscommunication that has occurred about this. There was a significant breakdown in communication amongst the Grievance Collective last year and no records are kept from Grievance Collective so we relied on the QC Organising Committee 2014. To combat this this year, Grievance Collective will have a scheduled time to meet every day. We will also encourage record keeping, especially in instances of grievances that require further action to be taken. 

We have received two requests to ban people. One person is not attending the conference, so we took no further action.  The other person is attending the conference, however we would like to provide the rest of the quote mentioned in the preamble of the motion for further context and our actual plan of action, “We don't believe that these claims constitute a clear and significant threat to the wellbeing of QC delegates to the level of requiring that [this person] be excluded from QC. If they do attend however, we will alert the Grievance Collective to these concerns and personally remind [this person] of the Participant's Agreement and Safer Spaces policy. If they do violate these agreements again, it is the decision of the Grievance Collective to remove them from the conference.” The provided claims from the person requesting the ban only pertained to an incident at QC 2014 during which no action was taken according to the person requesting the ban. The statement that this person was removed from QC 2014 contradicts all contact we had with the person requesting the ban and our communication with QC Organising Committee 2014. As there is no formal procedure in place for requests for banning, miscommunication becomes more likely and expectations are assumed rather than stated clearly. More broadly, QC should work with AQSN and other concerned parties to formulate a policy for the continuity of welfare, particularly requested bannings to ensure the optimal safety of delegates at QC. 

Most of the organising of welfare before QC goes on behind the scenes. We’ve ensured many of our volunteers have First Aid and Mental Health First Aid certificates. There are emergency plans in place for the possible occurrence of life-threatening events. We’ve done a lot of thinking about alcohol, which is frequently a problem at QC and hopefully the culture at QC of excessive alcohol consumption at all times is reduced. Our decision to not provide accommodation was for two reasons: there is no one venue or comparable two venues in Civic at which we could host all delegates and the fact that the compression of almost all QC delegates into the one small hostel encourages the alcohol culture and rapidly creates an unsafe space. 

In closing, we’re sorry for our actions have lead to this point, however QC hasn’t started yet, so it remains to see how it goes, as the Organising Committee only has so much sway once QC has started. Any feedback on QC to qcanu2015@gmail.com would be much appreciated. 
